- Before you begin to apply to software developer positions,
you should set aside some time over the course of a few days
to determine what you're looking for in your career.
One of the first decisions you'll need to make
is whether or not you're willing to relocate
for the right position.
More and more companies are embracing remote work.
However, there are still many excellent positions
that might require you to relocate.
Once you've made this decision,
you can start to narrow down your job search
to the locations where you'd like to live.
Next, you'll want to consider
the type of experience that's right for you.
Maybe you're looking for a fast-paced startup
where you'll get to try multiple roles
and have a variety of tasks,
or you might enjoy the structure of an established company
where you can specialize and focus deeply
on solving a particular problem.
Each type of company has their pros and cons.
Startups are exciting,
but you may sacrifice some job stability.
Working in a larger corporation can provide you
with more opportunities to switch teams and projects,
but there are often more policies and regulations
the company has to follow.
After you have a general idea
about the type of company you're looking for,
you can narrow down your search
if there's a specific industry you want to work in.
So if finance really interests you,
maybe you'll start your search
by looking for software development positions
at large banks or a smaller FinTech company
if you want to work for a startup.
Just be aware, the more criteria you add,
the fewer opportunities that you'll find.
So let's just walk through an example.
Let's say I'm looking for the benefits of a larger company,
I'm willing to relocate anywhere,
and I've always wanted to work in the aerospace industry.
That's our job search criteria.
I might start by looking up the largest corporations
in the aerospace industry on the Fortune 500 website,
just to get a sense of the larger companies in the industry.
Okay, it looks like Lockheed Martin, Boeing,
and Raytheon are larger corporations in this industry
at the time of this recording.
Let's go over to the jobs section on LinkedIn
and see what positions are open for these companies.
I'm looking for a software development position
and I have a bit of experience with Java,
so I'll throw those keywords into the search.
Now I'm going to limit the search
to these specific companies to see what's available.
So first I'll enter Boeing, then Raytheon,
and then finally I'll enter Lockheed Martin.
Okay, let's see what's available.
It looks like Boeing is hiring
for quite a few developer positions, and this one is nearby.
Let's review this position to get a better understanding
of what the responsibilities are, what skills are required,
and what the company is looking for in a candidate.
During this research, also take a look
at the company's website to get a sense
for what the work-life balance is
and an understanding of their culture,
to determine if it aligns with
what you're looking for in a position.
You can also search for blogs of developers
at the company that you can follow
to get a sense of what the company is working on
and maybe even establish a relationship at the company.
When you find a position at a company
that seems like a good fit,
make sure you save the link to the job advertisement.
At this point, we're just collecting potential opportunities
and learning what companies are looking for
in a job candidate, which will be helpful information later
when you build out your resume.
You don't want to place all of your chances for employment
with one company, so you'll repeat this process
for different companies as you establish
and scope your search for a software development position.
With each pass, you will get a better sense
of different positions, companies, and industries
as your list of potential opportunities gets larger.